>> Erik Reinert: Okay, so really
quickly we're going to now go over to
Google Cloud because we want
to set up the credentials.
We basically we want to get all of
the like, you know, configuring and
like credentials and
all that stuff out of the way.
So I'm going to quickly switch
to my right account and
then I'm going to go to cloud.google.com
and then make sure you're logged in.
And then once you're logged in,
click on Console.
Console.
Although I will say I don't, I don't
know whose UI I hate worse, Amazon's or
Google's.
I can't stand material.
Ui.
Yeah, just to clarify, we're using GCP or
Google Cloud for
being able to log in with Google so
that Google is handling authentication for
our app, Correct?
Right.
Yeah.
So let's talk about that really quickly
while you guys are getting there.
Who here likes authentication and
managing it?
Anybody?
No.
Okay, cool.
Yeah.
So this is a whole other argument of like,
do I go to here to manage my auth or
do I roll my own auth?
Now let me say this.
Rolling your own auth is
really not that difficult.
It's not.
Most people overcomplicate it and
worry about too many security
parameters like, what happens to this?
Dude just get it started.
You'll figure out along
the way what's the problem.
But that was kind of the approach
we took here, which was like,
why rely on another service to roll
off when you could just simply
use something like GCP to create
OAuth tokens and just call it a day.
That's why we're using gcp,
because it's a very simple auth approach
that is easy to set up and
then we're just done.
There's no need of a third party
service or all this other stuff.
It's literally just create
some credentials, set them and
then we're off to the races.
Once you're logged in and
you're at this page,
the next thing you're going to
go to is API and services and
then you're going to click on credentials.
Now I already have it,
it's right here, right?
But what we're going to want to do is
we're going to want to create credentials
up at the top and then we're going
to want to click OAuth Client ID.
Now you may not see this.
How many of you do not see
this when you click that?
Okay, it may ask you for something
called the OAuth consent screen, right?
Yeah.
Okay, so this is Very simple.
You just have to do
a couple of quick clicks.
It's basically just next, next.
But you're just, you're basically
just telling Google who you are.
That's it.
Because this is an actual application that
they are validating on their platform.
So they want to validate that you
are in fact who you say you are for
the application.
So do me a favor.
I can't see that again.
I only get to see it once per project, so
I'd have to go to a completely
new project to see that.
But once you go through that process,
you will get back to this page.
>> Male: Should we use
the internal audience type so
we don't have to submit our app for.
>> Erik Reinert: Yes.
Yeah, yeah.
So it asks you to like submit app or
just use.
I think it's external audience.
Is that.
>> Male: Actually that
option is disabled for
me because it says because you're
not a Google workspace user,
you can only make your app available
to external general audience.
>> Erik Reinert: Yes, yes, yes.
Yeah, that's the option you want.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Basically what Google is saying is
because Google doesn't have you as
a organization in their accounts,
you're just gonna use it like any other
app using Google Credentials would use it.
So it's just a normal third party thing.
So it may send you back to Overview.
Just click on clients again and
then Create Client and then bam.
You should be able to be right where I am.
So you just wanna make sure you're back
on the create OAuth client ID page.
Cool.
Awesome, so
we're gonna click Application type and
we are going to click Web application.
You'll give it a name?
I would give it the name normally.
Okay, so really quickly,
let's talk about service credentials.
These are the things that aren't fun
to talk about, but I feel like I should
share them with you because these are the
things that honestly can ruin a company.
And you might be like, why?
What does that mean?
How can you ruin a company, dude?
I cannot tell you how many times
I've heard some random oauth or
keys were generated,
somebody forgot about them,
and now two years later they still exist
because they didn't know and name it.
Right.
And so now somebody's backdoored into our
services because that got exploited and
has now become available, right?
This course isn't a security
course [LAUGH] I'm not trying to
necessarily teach you the best
ways of doing security.
However, two things about this
that I want to point out.
One, if you're creating authentication
credentials on third party services at
all, try and scope it to
the service that you're deploying.
So for example,
I would say FEM FD service, since that's
the service that we're deploying.
If I had another service,
then I would go in, create credentials for
that other service and
then use those credentials.
Now you might be like, well, that sucks.
I have to manage all these credentials.
Yeah, but if one of them gets exploited,
it's going to be a lot easier to deal with
just one instead of every system
that uses those credentials.
So that's the main takeaway I want you to
do, or I want you to have here is at least
isolate well, so that if you get into
a scenario where something bad happens,
you can separate that without necessarily
blowing up everything underneath it.
And I've been in that scenario too,
where credentials were globally used.
Like again today, we created the AWS
user with the administrator star Star.
If you guys don't remember
to delete that and
then that were to get out into the world,
then okay, that's not good.
So, yeah, be aware of these credentials
that you're generating just so
that you don't shoot yourself
in the foot in the future.
Okay, so what we're going to do
now is we're going to type in or
down at the bottom, you're going
to see authorized redirect URIs.
Who here knows how OAuth works?
How many of you don't
know how OAuth works?
Really quickly?
Okay, okay.
No, it's all good.
It's all good.
To be fair, I don't know if I fully do.
So we'll see if I can restate it.
So OAuth is really about handshaking.
That's the easiest way to put it.
It's about saying like, okay,
we're going to go somewhere,
we're going to get validated,
and then when we come back,
we can now say that we've been validated
and we can act upon that validation.
That's the easiest way to put it.
What happens though,
is that when you use something like OAuth,
the provider needs to know that
you are who you say you are.
Say, for example,
I set up a credentials, right,
how does the provider know to send
you back to where you were, right?
Because we redirect them to you or
to the provider.
So then how does the provider
know how to get back, right?
Because we've all done that.
We've clicked OAuth, we click a button,
it goes to something else and
then somehow we end up
back on the website.
That is what the redirect URI is,
and that's part of the OAuth flow,
where in the specification OAuth says,
well, hey, if we're going to do this,
we need a URL of some sort to send
the user back to that you confirm is your
URL and then we can validate that and
then you can get the request.
What happens underneath the hood
is it becomes again this handshake
handoff where the user logs in,
they get sent over to the third party.
The third party then generates
the access key or a little token for
that specific OAuth request.
Then the user almost has a little bag
now where it's like, okay, go back home.
And then they go back to your app
with that secret or whatever.
And then you take that and you validate
it when you get to that webhook endpoint.
So users actually go to an API
before they get back to your page.
So they'll hit an API endpoint,
you'll get that data,
you'll go, cool, I got the email,
put it in the database.
And then nine times out of 10,
what you won't see is the,
the application will then redirect you to
the front page or something like that.
So you never see that callback URL.
But that's basically how OAuth works
is you ship them out to a third party,
that third party says, well,
I know the URL that I'm supposed to go to.
So now I'm gonna send them
back with their little packet.
And then once you get that packet and
open it up, you should see their email and
everything so
that then you can authenticate them,
create a session with that email,
then send them back to the front page.
So yeah, there's still like
programming is never simple,
there's still work you
have to do somewhere.
But normally that whole process I just
described is a lot easier than sending out
emails.
Sending out emails and
transactionals is really annoying.
So this is why developers,
especially front end developers and stuff,
are getting really, really hyped about
OAuth is because you don't have to
deal with email,
you can just immediately get started.
And again, it's a validated endpoint
that you don't have to worry about.
Okay, cool, so we're going to go to
authorize redirect URIs now that you guys
understand that, and we are going to
put in our local host callback URL.
So I'm going to just go ahead and
copy and paste it and
then I'll let you guys write it in yours,
but
we're basically going to do HTTP
localhost8080auth Google callback.
I don't think you need to click Add uri.
I think it's already there.
So I think we're good.
So go ahead and type that in.
I'll give you a second here.
HTTP, not HTTPs.
Yep [LAUGH] All right.
Yep, we're going insecure for right now.
I mean, again, it's local host.
Of course.
Yeah.
I mean,
you could kind of think of local
host as like an SSL in a way.
Normally, nothing is gonna get on
localhost unless your computer is hacked,
so should be fine.
But to go back to what I said earlier, and
this is something we are going to do in
this course, you will probably also
want to create credentials per redirect,
like URI if it's in
different environments.
For example, this is dev token, right?
Now, if I put this in prod, that does
technically mean that I could use that
localhost URL in the production
environment because it's the same token,
meaning that application expects it.
Now, again,
I'm not here to teach you security, but
I have messed up enough to know where
some of these problems can happen.
So normally what you would do is you
would create a no oauth client for
that environment with that specific URL.
So again, in the future,
if somebody tried to use that token or
if they figured out a way to bypass
the normal authorized redirect,
they can't use that token in
production and access things.
But for this,
we're not going to worry about it.
So I'm going to hit create and
I'm going to dox myself, but
I'm going to do it so
that you guys can see it.
And then I'm going to delete this and
do this off screen.
So you will get this.
Yeah, good luck chat.
Try and get in as quick as you can.
You will get this oauth client created,
you'll get a client id, a client secret,
and then you can even click Download JSON.
I would recommend downloading that JSON,
but at least copy the client ID and
the client secret and like put it in
a separate window or notepad or something.